data-collectors/event-a22/README.md, before:

# A22 Events

Application which takes A22 event data from a web service parses it and sends it to the opendatahub.

## Table of contents

- [Gettings started](#getting-started)
- [Running tests](#running-tests)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Information](#information)

## Getting started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing
purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:

- Java JDK 1.8 or higher (e.g. [OpenJDK](https://openjdk.java.net/))
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 3.x
- A postgres database with the schema intimev2 and elaboration (bdp) already installed

### Source code

Get a copy of the repository:

```bash
git clone git clone https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons
```

Change directory:

```bash
cd bdp-commons/data-collectors/events-a22
```

### Build

Build the project:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

## Running tests

The unit tests can be executed with the following command:

```bash
mvn clean test
```

## Deployment

This is a maven project and will produce a war that can be deployed in any j2ee container like tomcat or jetty.

Steps:

* change the file src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22connector.properties. set the url, the username and the
  password to connect to the A22 API (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
url=
user=
password=
```

* optionally change the origin, the provenance, the station type, the last timestamp and the scan window (in seconds) in
  the file src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22events.properties. (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
origin=A22
integreenTypology=Events
categoryPrefix=A22
uuidNamescpace=8b1a7848-c436-44e5-9123-e221496a7769
lastTimestamp=2018-01-01 00:00:00
scanWindowSeconds=2592000
```

* optionally change the metadata values mapping in the file
  src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22eventsmetadatamapping.properties.
  (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.1=Sud
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.2=Nord
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.3=Entrambe
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.*=Non definito
...
```

* configure the log4j.properties file as desidered

* create the war executing the following command

```
mvn clean package
```

* deploy the war to a j2ee container like tomcat or jetty

## Information

### Support

For support, please contact [info@opendatahub.bz.it](mailto:info@opendatahub.bz.it).

### Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please follow the following instructions:

- Fork the repository.

- Checkout a topic branch from the `development` branch.

- Make sure the tests are passing.

- Create a pull request against the `development` branch.

### Documentation

More documentation can be found
at [https://opendatahub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html](https://opendatahub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

### License

The code in this project is licensed under the GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3 license. See
the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for more information.

Commit message:

A22 events data collector SottiTipi csv + readme

data-collectors/event-a22/README.md, after:

# A22 Events

Application which takes A22 event data from a web service parses it and sends it to the opendatahub.

## Table of contents

- [Gettings started](#getting-started)
- [Running tests](#running-tests)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Information](#information)

## Getting started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing
purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:

- Java JDK 1.8 or higher (e.g. [OpenJDK](https://openjdk.java.net/))
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 3.x
- A postgres database with the schema intimev2 and elaboration (bdp) already installed

### Source code

Get a copy of the repository:

```bash
git clone git clone https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons
```

Change directory:

```bash
cd bdp-commons/data-collectors/events-a22
```

### Build

Build the project:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

## Running tests

The unit tests can be executed with the following command:

```bash
mvn clean test
```

## Deployment

This is a maven project and will produce a war that can be deployed in any j2ee container like tomcat or jetty.

Steps:

* change the file src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22connector.properties. set the url, the username and the
  password to connect to the A22 API (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
url=
user=
password=
```

* optionally change the origin, the provenance, the station type, the last timestamp and the scan window (in seconds) in
  the file src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22events.properties. (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
origin=A22
integreenTypology=Events
categoryPrefix=A22
uuidNamescpace=8b1a7848-c436-44e5-9123-e221496a7769
lastTimestamp=2018-01-01 00:00:00
scanWindowSeconds=2592000
```

* optionally change the metadata values mapping in the file
  src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22eventsmetadatamapping.properties.
  (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.1=Sud
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.2=Nord
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.3=Entrambe
a22_events.metadata.iddirezione.*=Non definito
...
```

* configure the log4j.properties file as desidered

* create the war executing the following command

```
mvn clean package
```

* deploy the war to a j2ee container like tomcat or jetty

## Mapping of Tipi and SottoTipi Event

The mapping of the events Tipi are saved in a properties file witch is located
in `src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/a22eventsmetadatamapping.properties`.

Each property is in the following form:
```
a22_events.metadata.idtipoevento.<idtipoevento>=<description>
```

The mapping of The Events SottoTipi is saved in a csv file witch is located
in `src/main/resources/it/bz/noi/a22/events/SottotipiEventi.csv`. The file has to contain the headers `IdSottotipo`
and `Descrizione`.

## Information

### Support

For support, please contact [info@opendatahub.bz.it](mailto:info@opendatahub.bz.it).

### Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please follow the following instructions:

- Fork the repository.

- Checkout a topic branch from the `development` branch.

- Make sure the tests are passing.

- Create a pull request against the `development` branch.

### Documentation

More documentation can be found
at [https://opendatahub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html](https://opendatahub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

### License

The code in this project is licensed under the GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3 license. See
the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for more information.
