data-collectors/traffic-provBZ/README.md, before:

# trafficprovbz Data Collector

> TODO: Replace all "trafficprovbz" or TODO sections with your documenation.
> Please, do not write general information that is already contained inside the
> general [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data Collectors README](../../README.md)

[![CI](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-trafficprovbz.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-trafficprovbz.yml)

> TODO: Describe this data collector shortly:  This **trafficprovbz** project is a
> showcase on how data collector development works.

**Table of Contents**
- [trafficprovbz Data Collector](#trafficprovbz-data-collector)
	- [Getting started](#getting-started)
		- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
		- [Configuration](#configuration)
		- [Additional information](#additional-information)

> TODO: At the final end of this README update the Table Of Contents

## Getting started

General instructions can be found inside the [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data
Collectors README](../../README.md). Please read that first. The following
chapters will only contain specific configuration and setup steps.

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your
local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:
- Everything inside [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data Collectors README](../../README.md#prerequisites)
- > **TODO** put your additional requisites here, do not add stuff that is already covered in the main README

### Configuration

> TODO: Write your data collector configuration descriptions here

### Additional information

> TODO: Add some additinal information, like what this DC does, how it works
> Talks also about the original data source and eventually provide links or
> documentation that describes the data that we retrieve

Commit message:

add documentation to data collector

data-collectors/traffic-provBZ/README.md, after:

# Traffic Province BZ Data Collector


[![CI](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-traffic-prov-bz.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-traffic-bz.yml)

Application which takes data from the API provided by the company Famas, parses it
and stores it in the opendatahub.

**Table of Contents**
- [Traffic Province BZ Data Collector](#traffic-provBZ-data-collector)
	- [Getting started](#getting-started)
		- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
		- [Configuration](#configuration)
		- [Additional information](#additional-information)

## Getting started

General instructions can be found inside the [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data
Collectors README](../../README.md). Please read that first. The following
chapters will only contain specific configuration and setup steps.

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your
local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:
- Everything inside [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data Collectors README](../../README.md#prerequisites)

### Configuration

The data collector consists of three schedulers:
- For syncing the traffic stations
- For syncing the traffic data
- For syncing the bluetooth data

After cloning the project setup the project as a maven project. Afterwards start the project as a spring boot application.

Important note: The bdp-core repository has to be up and running (on docker) as well.
