data-collectors/matomo-noi/README.md, before:

# Matomo Data Collector

> TODO: Replace all "matomo" or TODO sections with your documenation.
> Please, do not write general information that is already contained inside the
> general [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data Collectors README](../../README.md)

[![CI](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-matomo.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-matomo.yml)

> TODO: Describe this data collector shortly:  This **matomo** project is a
> showcase on how data collector development works.

**Table of Contents**
- [matomo Data Collector](#matomo-data-collector)
	- [Getting started](#getting-started)
		- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
		- [Configuration](#configuration)
		- [Additional information](#additional-information)

> TODO: At the final end of this README update the Table Of Contents

## Getting started

General instructions can be found inside the [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data
Collectors README](../../README.md). Please read that first. The following
chapters will only contain specific configuration and setup steps.

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your
local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:
- Everything inside [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data Collectors README](../../README.md#prerequisites)
- > **TODO** put your additional requisites here, do not add stuff that is already covered in the main README

### Configuration

> TODO: Write your data collector configuration descriptions here

### Additional information

> TODO: Add some additinal information, like what this DC does, how it works
> Talks also about the original data source and eventually provide links or
> documentation that describes the data that we retrieve

Commit message:

matomo-noi: use getPageUrl instead of custom reports

data-collectors/matomo-noi/README.md, after:

# Matomo Data Collector

[![CI](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-matomo.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons/actions/workflows/ci-matomo.yml)

Simple datacollector to get Data from Matomo using the Matomo Reporting API  
https://developer.matomo.org/api-reference/reporting-api

Currently supported API methods are:  
- Actions.getPageUrl
- CustomReports.getCustomReport

**Table of Contents**
- [Matomo Data Collector](#matomo-data-collector)
	- [Getting started](#getting-started)
		- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
		- [Configuration](#configuration)

## Getting started

General instructions can be found inside the [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data
Collectors README](../../README.md). Please read that first. The following
chapters will only contain specific configuration and setup steps.

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your
local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:
- Everything inside [Open Data Hub Mobility - Data Collectors README](../../README.md#prerequisites)
- Matomo API token https://matomo.org/faq/general/faq_114/

You can try the Matomo API calls with [calls.http](calls.http) using the VSCodium/VSCode rest client 

### Configuration

Create a local .env file by copying the [example .env](.env.example)
Insert your Matomo API token and base URL in your `.env` file.
