data-collectors/bike-chargers/README.md, before:

# E-bike / E-car chargers Ecospazio Data Collector

Application which takes data of the MENTOR project from the API provided by "ecospazio", parses it and sends it to the opendatahub.

## Table of contents

- [Gettings started](#getting-started)
- [Running tests](#running-tests)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Information](#information)

## Getting started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing
purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build the project, the following prerequisites must be met:

- Java JDK 1.8 or higher (e.g. [OpenJDK](https://openjdk.java.net/))
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 3.x
- A postgres database with the schema intimev2 and elaboration (bdp) already installed

### Source code

Get a copy of the repository:

```bash
git clone git clone https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons
```

Change directory:

```bash
cd bdp-commons/data-collectors/bike-charger
```

### Build

Build the project:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

## Running tests

The unit tests can be executed with the following command:

```bash
mvn clean test
```

## Deployment

This is a maven project and will produce a war that can be deployed in any j2ee container like tomcat or jetty.

Steps:

* change the file src/main/resources/connector.properties. set the url, the api key name and the
  api key value to connect to the "ecospazio" API (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
connector.url=
connector.apiKey.name=
connector.apiKey.value=
```

* optionally change the origin, the station types, periods (in seconds) in
  the file src/main/resources/bikecharger.properties. (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
origin=ECOSPAZIO
bikeCharger.stationtype=BIKE_CHARGER
bikeChargerBay.stationtype=BIKE_CHARGER_BAY
period=300
```

* optionally change the data types in the file src/main/resources/datatypes.properties.
  (or configure it within a CI tool)

```state={key: 'state', unit: '', description: 'state', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
freebay={key: 'freebay', unit: '', description: 'freebay', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
availableVehicles={key: 'availableVehicles', unit: '', description: 'availableVehicles', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
usageState={key: 'usageState', unit: '', description: 'usageState', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
...
```

* configure the log4j.properties file as desidered

## Information

### Support

For support, please contact [info@opendatahub.bz.it](mailto:info@opendatahub.bz.it).

### Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please follow the following instructions:

- Fork the repository.

- Checkout a topic branch from the `development` branch.

- Make sure the tests are passing.

- Create a pull request against the `development` branch.

### Documentation

More documentation can be found
at [https://opendatahub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html](https://opendatahub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

### License

The code in this project is licensed under the GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3 license. See
the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for more information.

Commit message:

bike-chargers: Initial CD setup

data-collectors/bike-chargers/README.md, after:

# E-bike / E-car chargers Ecospazio Data Collector

Application which takes data of the MENTOR project from the API provided by "ecospazio", parses it and sends it to the opendatahub.

**Table of contents**

- [E-bike / E-car chargers Ecospazio Data Collector](#e-bike--e-car-chargers-ecospazio-data-collector)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Source code](#source-code)
    - [Build](#build)
  - [Running tests](#running-tests)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Information](#information)
    - [Support](#support)
    - [Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [License](#license)

## Getting started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing
purposes.

### Prerequisites

To build and run the project, the following prerequisites must be met:

- Java JDK 1.8 or higher (e.g. [OpenJDK](https://openjdk.java.net/))
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) 3.x
- The [Open Data Hub Mobility Writer](https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-core)
  (aka Big Data Platform Core) installed

### Source code

Get a copy of the repository:

```bash
git clone git clone https://github.com/noi-techpark/bdp-commons
```

Change directory:

```bash
cd bdp-commons/data-collectors/bike-charger
```

### Build

Build the project:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

## Running tests

The unit tests can be executed with the following command:

```bash
mvn clean test
```

## Deployment

This is a maven project and will produce a war that can be deployed in any j2ee container like tomcat or jetty.

Steps:

* change the file `src/main/resources/connector.properties`. set the url, the api key name and the
  api key value to connect to the "ecospazio" API (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
connector.url=
# HTTP Header name, usually 'Token'
connector.apiKey.name=
# The API token
connector.apiKey.value=
```

* optionally change the origin, the station types, periods (in seconds) in
  the file `src/main/resources/bikecharger.properties`. (or configure it within a CI tool)

```
origin=ECOSPAZIO
bikeCharger.stationtype=BIKE_CHARGER
bikeChargerBay.stationtype=BIKE_CHARGER_BAY
period=300
```

* optionally change the data types in the file `src/main/resources/datatypes.properties`.
  (or configure it within a CI tool)

```state={key: 'state', unit: '', description: 'state', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
freebay={key: 'freebay', unit: '', description: 'freebay', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
availableVehicles={key: 'availableVehicles', unit: '', description: 'availableVehicles', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
usageState={key: 'usageState', unit: '', description: 'usageState', rtype: 'Instantaneous'}
...
```

* configure the `log4j.properties` file as desidered

## Information

### Support

For support, please contact [help@opendatahub.bz.it](mailto:help@opendatahub.bz.it).

### Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please follow the following instructions:

- Fork the repository.
- Checkout a topic branch from the `development` branch.
- Make sure the tests are passing.
- Create a pull request against the `development` branch.

Please also read our [Getting Started
Guidelines](https://github.com/noi-techpark/odh-docs/wiki/Contributor-Guidelines:-Getting-started).

### Documentation

More documentation can be found at
[https://docs.opendatahub.bz.it](https://docs.opendatahub.bz.it).

### License

The code in this project is licensed under the GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 3 license. See the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for more information.
